Playing in the JSL is in some ways like training for an Olympic games.  Balls out, no time to eat, no time to sleep, every minute of every day is an opportunity to train and get an edge on your opponent.  With the Olympics there's a four year taper, where training gets progressively more intense as the games approach.  Here, it's 24 hours a day 7 days a week 365 days a year.  I get flown in a few weeks before the season starts, I can't imagine doing this all the time!  It's absolutely incredible what these people do over the course of a year, and over the course of their careers.  

Why do they put themselves through all this?  I can only guess because it's because they love this game. Training to be an Olympian isn't about the pursuit of fame and fortune, it's about the pursuit of a dream to compete with the world's best on the biggest stage.  It's about deciding one day to take the sport you love to the next level and train like a maniac to be the best in the world.  That's what it feels like here.  This is the Olympics to these players, and as an outsider it's a pretty surreal experience that I will never forget.  

Living in the Olympic village was like living in a bubble.  There's no access to the outside world, no English TV, and we were advised to stay away from social media because of the bombardment of people at home trying to talk to you.  All you can do is sleep, eat, play, and focus on winning a medal.  Similarly in Japan, there is no time for the outside world, or in my case it's not familiar anyways.  So much focus is on winning as many of the 22 games of the regular season as possible, and in the end it makes everyone a little bit crazy.  That was the battle for me in 2008, and it's the same thing right now.  It's not about getting any better when you're at the Olympics, it's performing when it matters the most.     

Watching the games today, it's kindof a silly concept

On the eve of our first of 22 regular season league games, we practice, watch video, meet about the opponent.  One thing I remember vividly about my Olympic experience was how much it consumed my every being.  All I wanted was a medal, and living in the bubble that was the Olympic village without any access to the outside world, the mind starts to go a little crazy.   

The Olympic spirit is one that embodies the spirit of sport.  For 16 days, countries put aside their political conflicts to support their finest athletes on the world stage.  These athletes do not get paid to represent their countries, and cannot hold a job because all of their time is devoted to training.  They do it for the love of their sport, and sacrifice a life of normalcy in the pursuit of their Olympic dream.  


Interesting thought behind Japanese softball. What if it's all for the love of the game, or the spirit of sport? Isn't that what the olympics are about? Amateur sport, where athletes don't make money, they sacrifice a real life to devote all their time energy and resources to win a medal. For what? A week, a few months of glory, and then you're forgotten. 

Japanese softball is much of the same. These people aren't professional athletes, they have a real job and choose to not have any free time to play this sport. The companies that sponsor the team don't get any financial gain from having a softball team, but they choose to have one anyways.  There's no prize in the end aside from bragging rights.  In North America, professional sports have one goal and that's to make money. Win championships and make more money.  Buy out the b 

Playing in the JSL is like preparing for an olympics. ALL THE TIME. I have never played for a team that takes softball so seriously, scouts so much and keeps coming back for more.  There is no taper, this is their job. And I'm left here wondering where I fit in, or if it even matters. It's a crazy concept. A Japanese team thinks they can't win with what they have so they outsource positions in hopes to buy a championship? I suppose that's how professional sports works. For better or worse. 

And I can only speak for my own team but if your formula isn't yielding any fruit then why do you keep using it?? 


My journey to the olympics was not a typical one but from what I understand the process