I don't know how football players do it.  Playing once a week is crazy, and playing once every 2 weeks is ridiculous!  At least I can imagine the detailed preparation goes into an NFL game, and the fact that they hit each other with significant force in every play.  There's a time where they need to recover.  But softball?  What do we do?  I sit down, drink some water, stand at second base, field a ground ball or two, then that's it.  There are scouting notes to review and some video to watch, but in the end there's a significant element of chance that goes into the outcome of a game.  Trying to hit a round ball with a round bat is not exactly an easy thing, and only given three chances at it per game is not a lot.  Many times the outcome of a game is decided by a late homerun or a bloop single that scores a run.  The best team does not necessarily win the game, and I don't believe the most prepared team necessarily wins the game either.  There's a lot that goes into it.  How your pitcher performs that day, can your lineup string some hits together that day to manufacture some runs?  It's hard to define a "hot streak" in Japan because we play so infrequently.  Can you consider it a hitting streak if I got a hit 2 weeks ago, and then I got one today?  I don't think so.  

In this small little pocket of Japan called the JSA, these 22 games are everything.  Only there are only 11 week(ends) to play your best and the rest of the year is spent preparing.  And I think with any sort of major sporting event like the world championships or Olympic games, the pressure makes everyone a little crazy.  There's pressure externally from the sponsor company, family and friends, but also internal pressure from your teammates and coaches.  All we want to do is win, and it's really easy for everyone to create individualized solutions in their own mind.  With all this time to prepare it's difficult to determine the method of preparation as well.  There are no coaches clinics, or softball academies, or conferences to get different ideas for practice plans.  It's pure imagination for Todachu!  




<p>Could you imagine playing high school softball and having that be your only softball knowledge in your repetoir?  Never been to a hitting lesson, never been to a Jennie Finch softball camp.  The only way you know how to swing the bat or field a ground ball is by watching everyone else and trial by fire.  Trust me there are lots of chances for trial by fire, so whatever way you decide to swing, good or bad, it's not to hard to perfect whatever that method may be.  There is minimal instruction, zero mentorship, no discussion/questions or any sort of "coaching" in the sense that we know in North America.  Everyone practices the same way, and in the end the best athletes rise to the top and become successful.</p>

<p>It's a strange concept, but one that I can sort of grasp based on the culture.  There is less individualization in Japan, and less of a desire by the average person to be unique.  Therefore, players and/or coaches are not as likely to come up with innovative ideas and open up "Sally's Baseball and Softball Instruction."  Or travel the country on "Akita Sensei's Coaching Tour."  However, Japan won the last World Championship and Olympic gold medal after all, so what do I know?</p>

<p>So what happens when you're the Bad News Bears type of team that isn't among the group of "Most Talented Athletes?"  Who knows because I'm still trying to figure that out.  As a foreigner, I can only stand back and make observations.  And from my short time here it seems like everyone is still searching for that magic switch to win.  Everyone wants to win of course, but without experience and high level training it's very hard to come up with ideas that can yield tangible results.  Kindof like looking for your keys and searching everywhere in the house, but somehow in the back of your mind you'll never find them because they're actually locked in the car.  I can only assume that's why teams choose to spend absurd amounts of money to bring foreign players in.  If I can't win with what I have, then maybe I can buy my way to a championship.  This is a valid argument, as the top four teams of last season all had foreign players.  But as I've learned, there is more to it than flying me in and letting me loose.  And although I don't exactly know what it is that makes it difficult for me to play here, I have to keep searching for those keys just like everyone else. Ganbatte Todachu.</p>

 or why I can't seem to find my stride playing a game I should already have a handle on towards the end of my career, I have to keep searching for those keys just like everyone else.  Ganbatte Todachu.   










There is so much that goes into playing here.  It's not as simple as getting off the plane and playing softball. Playing in a foreign country has truly taught me that this game is an individual game within a team sport.   

Therefore, as a transplant, living and playing here becomes an experience that is like nothing else.  It's like learning how to play softball again.  There are internal dialogues that go on in my head such as 

Why do we practice for so long?
This is a strange way to run a first and third.
I wonder why the practice plan hasn't changed in 5 days
This would go much more faster if we did it this way
I wonder when we'll eat next, it's been 8 hours.
3 hours is a long time to warm up for a game
I've been sitting here idle for 30 minutes now, I better warm myself up again.  Ok maybe 5 more minutes.
If I just visualize hitting bp before a game, maybe it will make this side toss more effective?

Playing for a Japanese team is something that I have stopped trying to rationalize.  It is what it is, and I can't change it.  And the battle isn't to try and get better, it's the battle to stay true to yourself as a player. 












but if there's one thing I learning in Beijing it's that everyone must be on the same page.  It's so easy to clam up and 


But in Japan, the world of workaholics, all this free time means PRACTICE.  And by practice this means   