Why playing softball in Japan is like joining a cult. 

Everything is standardized. Blue nets, ball crates, labeled balls, tombos, skill sets (batting/throwing/pitching), 

There is no individualization. Everyone tows the line like everyone else. There are no special privileges, you play your role and don't complain. Practice over anything. 

Being a transplant you start to blend in and lose your identity. You practice like everyone else which is 90% of your existence. And eventually start to lose yourself. It's hard to be true to yourself or even remember what that is when you live here. 

I'm not speaking english, I'm not playing in an "american style softball" I don't know what I'm doing


I never thought I would join a cult in my lifetime but I think I just did inadvertently.. This is a world filled with people with no brains or forthought.  In a world with no individualization whatsoever.  The game of softball is completely different in Japan.  There are no Jennie Finch softball camps, there are no softball training facilities to go get a hitting lesson.  Everything is standardized.  The way you swing, field, throw, pitch is all the same in this country.  As a hitter there is no bother in scouting other pitchers because everyone has the same motion, the same spin, the same tendencies.  No bother to pick the pitcher because that's illegal anyways.  As an infielder, the hitters are so alike it's almost impossible to tell them apart.  Everyone uses the same bat, everyone has the same swing, everyone is fast, has the option to lay down a bunt.  It is so easy to coast in this league and lose yourself in it.

There are no personalities, everyone is the same robotic way.  Everyday practice is the same.  The same drills, the same order.  It's hard to remember what day it is.  You're too tired to care anyways.  It's hard to stay focused on the task at hand when it's all the same.  There isn't much motivation to get better at at practice when the drills never change.  Most of the time I'm awake enough to catch the ball and that's about it.  I float through my at-bats, I forget where I'm hitting in the lineup.  All I can think about is how I'm dreading the practice after this double header.  What have I done to myself and why did I choose this life?  MONEY that's why.  It's a shit ton of money for 6 months of work, but is it worth it?  To be in this country essentially alone and unable to talk to anyone around you.  To be constantly worried about justifying this outrageously inflated salary, when I can't tell my right foot from my left foot?  The competitiveness is non-existant here, it's not the same when you can't understand the language.  I can't fabricate it myself, I'm not that good at mind games.  My only motivation is for my own performance and that's a really tough way to play my friends.  When the only thing you're worried about is the stat line at the end of the day.  It's awful.  It makes you worry, it makes you nervous, it makes you question your gut and instincts, which are the ONLY things that you should be using when at the plate.  This is what I teach others but I cannot do the same myself.  