The eternal struggle with food in Japan

There are two basic Japanese food genres, rice and noodles.  Period.  Japan isn't exactly a big country with lots of land for agriculture, so much of the food is imported in.  And being an island, the cost to import goods becomes expensive.  Therefore, any sort of meat or vegetable serves as a condiment to the aformentioned rice or noodles.  Case 1 - Bento boxes.  Look at the ratio of rice to other stuff!!  Case 2 - Ramen.  One skinny slice of pork, a few bamboo shoots/beansprouts and some canned corn.  Destination hungry :(.  Then there's the Japanese invention of hamburg.  Which is a beef (we think) patty usually served with a couple potato wedges.  No bun, that would be a hamburger...Duh. Picture hamburg vs hamburger.  For one that doesn't really care for hamburgers in the first place, I try to avoid all forms of hamburg(er).  However, sometimes they do find their way into the bento boxes.  A sneaky trick indeed.  

In North America, it's usually the opposite where the meat or vegetable is the main part of the meal and the starch is the side. There are also more starch options such as potatoes, various grains or bread.  Also, there is a huge range of diets that has become almost obnoxious, from gluten free, paleo, vegetarian, no sugar/starch, Adkins, Weight watchers, vegan, South Beach, North Beach, Beach body, and the list goes on.  The menu at TGI Fridays has become an encyclopedia it's so big with calorie counts and "skinny" sections that are surely meant to cause shame and late night ice cream runs.  However, living in Japan has made me want all those choices more than anything! 

It's not that Japanese food tastes bad, it's that most of it tastes the same.  There are a lot of sweet soy based sauces, mayonnaise, bowls of noodles, and deep fried everything.  Basically it took me about three months to try everything Japanese, and I'm pretty sure the sukiyaki, yakisoba and okonomiyaki are all made of the same thing in different forms.  Yeah I'm on to you Japan.  Sometimes I wonder if food hasn't evolved here because it's such a working culture.  I see a lot of office workers eating their meals out of the convenience store, and after work it's off to the izakaya to eat some meat on a stick and drink beer.  Go to bed, and repeat the next day.  No wonder everyone is so skinny, they don't take the time to eat in the first place.  I would not consider Japanese food to be healthy by any means, but I'd be skinny as a rail too if I only at one stick of tempura and some rice every day.  

According to the International Organization for Migration, the net migration rate or the difference between the number of people entering and the number of people leaving Japan is a measly 0.4 per 1000 people over the last 4 years.  Compared to Canada where the net migration rate is 6 per 1000 people over the same time period.  Therefore, one doesn't see very many types of people walking around on the street who aren't tourists.  There isn't the little Vietnamese lady on the corner making bowls of pho and bahn mi every day.  Or the little hole in the wall taco shop where you have to order in Spanish.  Tokyo being a big city obviously has more choices, but even in the Mexican places you'd be hard pressed to see a real Mexican behind the counter.  But again, with the expensive nature of importing goods it's hard to create ethnic food that actually tastes right in the first place.    

 

I applaud the expatriates who choose to live here all year round.  You're a stronger person than I, because right now I'm counting down until I can go home.  Five more weeks baby!! 



